README.md, before:

# Introduction

Show the effect that seemingly harmless, sequential and/or blocking calls can
do in an SOA system.

As it currently stands, the examples really show the negatives of doing things
sequentially, when they could be parallelized.  While this could have been done
2 services, where the edge just makes N calls to the second service, the point
is to show the effect when people might be tempted do things sequentially since
they are only doing 'a few things'.  If everyone makes that same reasoning, it
can have a big impact on a layered system.

I hope to come back to the throughput aspects of non-blocking code.

# Usage

Start a web service on port 8080 that uses a system with 5 layers.  Each node
has 2 children.

```
PORT=8080; docker run -p $PORT:$PORT crankydillo/soa-simulation $PORT 5 2
```

The number of calls is a geometric series: `(1 - c^(l+1))/(1 - c)` where where
`c` is the number of children per node.   where `c` is the children per node
and `l` is the number of layers.  

So in using the command above, there will be 63 calls made to process a
request.

## Request that triggers non-blocking code

```
time curl localhost:8080/nb/req/1s
```

## Request that triggers blocking code

```
time curl localhost:8080/b/req/1s
```

Commit message:

Throughput test of non-blocking vs blocking.

README.md, after:

# Introduction

Show the effect that seemingly harmless, sequential and/or blocking calls can
do in an SOA system.

As it currently stands, the examples really show the negatives of doing things
sequentially, when they could be parallelized.  While this could have been done
2 services, where the edge just makes N calls to the second service, the point
is to show the effect when people might be tempted do things sequentially since
they are only doing 'a few things'.  If everyone makes that same reasoning, it
can have a big impact on a layered system.

I hope to come back to the throughput aspects of non-blocking code.

# Usage

Start a web service on port 8080 that uses a system with 5 layers.  Each node
has 2 children.

```
PORT=8080; docker run -p $PORT:$PORT crankydillo/soa-simulation $PORT 5 2
```

The number of calls is a geometric series: `(1 - c^(l+1))/(1 - c)` where where
`c` is the number of children per node.   where `c` is the children per node
and `l` is the number of layers.  

So in using the command above, there will be 63 calls made to process a
request.

# Sequential vs parallel affects latency

## Request that triggers parallel code

```
time curl localhost:8080/nb/req/1s
```

## Request that triggers sequential code

```
time curl localhost:8080/b/req/1s
```

# Blocking vs non-blocking affects throughput

For this, you'll have to have SBT in order to run the gatling-powered load
test.

In SBT's REPL, use:

```
reStart 8080 5 2
gatling:test
```

You exercise the non-blocking code first because the blocking will bring the
server to its knees.
